when I was just getting into high school
there was a tremendous amount of turmoil
in my family and so my parents basically
kicked me out of the house and like the
cops got involved all this stuff
happened and I ended up at a boarding
school and by that time in my life I I
so badly wanted to impress people I
wanted to be seen I wanted attention
that I was just compulsively lying so I
would just lie about all these things
I've been to this show I've been I'd
done this kind of skateboarding trick
all this stuff and uh this went on for
pretty much the whole year probably got
worse and worse as the Year got on and
um and near the end of the year there
was this kid Alex Bell and I remember
his name and I I can tell you I don't
remember anybody else's name from that
school right and he said to me like near
the end he said Hey
Joe like we would all probably like you
if you didn't lie so much it was just
this thing like he he sat me down to
talk to me about it he took this risk
right I could have denied that I was
lying I could have gotten angry at him I
there's so many things that could have
happened and he said this incredibly
difficult thing to me and he did it with
such an open loving heart that just it
was
undeniable and literally at that moment
I just stopped lying I I like I saw the
truth in what he had said and I was
young enough it hadn't like gotten
entrenched in my nervous system so much
that I was doing this thing over and
over again it it was just this thing
where I I just heard him and it just
stopped and it was the most
compassionate act that anybody had ever
done for me up until that time in my
life and the reason I'm telling you the
story is because often times what we
think of compassion is like being nice
what we think of being loving is being
nice when I'm hanging out say like on
Twitter or if I'm interacting with
people coaching often times people
confuse this idea of oh I don't want to
say anything that upsets
them with that's being nice that's being
loving that's being
compassionate and the truth is that
being compassionate is when we are
openhearted and speaking our truth
because then people can see a reality
that they might not be able to see and
sometimes that's very supportive and
sometimes that's telling somebody that
they're a liar
[Music]